Draft Akka gRPC 1.1.0 (#780)
akka/akka.io: blog/_posts/2021-02-08-akka-grpc-1.1.0-released.md

---
layout: post
title: Akka gRPC 1.1.0 Released
author: Ignasi Marimon-Clos
short: Announcing Akka gRPC 1.1.0
category: news
tags: [releases]
---

Dear hakkers,

We're happy to announce version 1.1.0 of [Akka gRPC](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka-grpc/)!

[gRPC](https://grpc.io/) is a transport mechanism for request/response and
(non-persistent) streaming use cases. See
[Why gRPC?](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka-grpc/current/whygrpc.html) for more 
information about when to use gRPC as your transport.

## Highlights

### Supported by Lightbend

This module is now officially
[Supported](https://developer.lightbend.com/docs/introduction/getting-help/support-terminology.html)
as part of a [Lightbend Subscription](https://www.lightbend.com/lightbend-subscription).

## Changes since 1.0.x

Akka gRPC 1.1.0 requires Akka 2.6.x and Akka HTTP 10.2.x.

> This release introduces a new, experimental client backend powered by Akka-HTTP. The default backend is still the classic client implemented using `grpc-java` which is based on Netty. You can enable the new backend using `akka.grpc.client."*".backend="akka-http"`. The Akka-HTTP backend for gRPC is built using the Akka HTTP client support for HTTP/2 introduced in [Akka HTTP 10.2.3](https://akka.io/blog/news/2021/01/18/akka-http-10.2.3-released). The Akka-HTTP backend for Akka gRPC client is released as a preview and the recommendation for genreal porpose usage is still the existing netty based backend.

Reviewer: general

Author: and `porpose` 🤦🏼‍♂️

Author: ```suggestion
This release introduces a new, experimental client backend powered by Akka-HTTP. The default backend is still the classic client implemented using `grpc-java` which is based on Netty. You can enable the new backend using `akka.grpc.client."*".backend="akka-http"`. The Akka-HTTP backend for gRPC is built using the Akka HTTP client support for HTTP/2 introduced in [Akka HTTP 10.2.3](https://akka.io/blog/news/2021/01/18/akka-http-10.2.3-released). The Akka-HTTP backend for Akka gRPC client is released as a preview and the recommendation for general purpose usage is still the existing, netty-based backend.
```

---
layout: post
title: Akka gRPC 1.1.0 Released
author: Ignasi Marimon-Clos
short: Announcing Akka gRPC 1.1.0
category: news
tags: [releases]
---

Dear hakkers,

We're happy to announce version 1.1.0 of [Akka gRPC](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka-grpc/)!

[gRPC](https://grpc.io/) is a transport mechanism for request/response and
(non-persistent) streaming use cases. See
[Why gRPC?](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka-grpc/current/whygrpc.html) for more 
information about when to use gRPC as your transport.

## Highlights

### Supported by Lightbend

This module is now officially
[Supported](https://developer.lightbend.com/docs/introduction/getting-help/support-terminology.html)
as part of a [Lightbend Subscription](https://www.lightbend.com/lightbend-subscription).

## Changes since 1.0.x

> Akka gRPC 1.1.0 requires Akka 2.6.x and Akka HTTP 10.2.x. The upgrade should be seamless except when upstream projects introduced changes (e.g. new Akka HTTP API).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Akka gRPC 1.1.0 requires Akka 2.6.x and Akka HTTP 10.2.x. The upgrade should be seamless except when upstream projects introduced changes (e.g. new Akka HTTP API).
```
It should be seamless as long as you avoided deprecated API's before upgrading, shouldn't it?

> This release introduces a new, experimental client backend powered by Akka-HTTP. The default backend is still the classic client implemented using `grpc-java` which is based on Netty. You can enable the new backend using `akka.grpc.client."*".backend="akka-http"`. The Akka-HTTP backend for gRPC is built using the Akka HTTP client support for HTTP/2 introduced in [Akka HTTP 10.2.3](https://akka.io/blog/news/2021/01/18/akka-http-10.2.3-released).

Reviewer 2: Maybe make it a little clearer that this client is really in the experimental/preview phase, and we still recommend the classic client for general use?

For a full list of changes see the [releases overview](https://github.com/akka/akka-grpc/releases)

## Credits

For this release we had the help of 8 contributors – thank you all very much!

```
Commits Added Removed Author

>    32      93      96 Scala Steward

Reviewer 2: I think we typically remove Scala Steward from the credits. (also LOL that it's the top committer)
